Wow
[Music]
[Applause]
you
is
[Music]
Oh
[Applause]
[Music]
I want to welcome your holiness to the
United States
Oh
[Music]
the national anthem
[Applause]
[Music]
well now I want to welcome your holiness
to the United States and on behalf of
the American people say how pleased and
privileged we are to have you among us
we're just returning from a mission of
peace and I can think of no more fitting
clothes to this journey than to be here
in the presence of your holiness who has
worked so diligently for recognition of
the rights and dignity of the individual
and for peace among nations I can assure
you your holiness the American people
seek to act as a force for peace in the
world and to further the cause of human
freedom and dignity indeed an
appreciation for the unalienable rights
of every human being at the very concept
that gave birth to this nation few have
understood better than our nation's
founding fathers that claims of human
dignity transcend the claims of any
government and that this transcendent
right itself has a transcendent source
our Declaration of Independence four
times acknowledges our country's
dependence on a Supreme Being and its
principal author and one of our greatest
presidents Thomas Jefferson put it
simply the God who gave us life gave us
Liberty at the same time
[Applause]
but no one knows better than your
holiness that the quest for human rights
and world peace is a difficult often
disheartening task in the face of
turmoil and tragedy in our world we must
always remember the central message of
your own ministry that the quest for
peace begins with each of us when I
began this journey on Easter Sunday I
asked the American people to join me in
a prayer for peace a prayer that the
nations of the world would renounce the
agony of and heartbreak of war and learn
to live in love with each other
we must never underestimate such efforts
far more can be accomplished by the
simple prayers of good people than by
all the statesmen and armies of the
world
[Applause]
only when the fellowship of all men
under the Fatherhood of God is
recognized and acknowledged only then
will the world finally know true peace
and understanding to us Your Holiness
the Holy See and your pastor it
represents one of humanity's greatest
moral and spiritual forces and your
visit is particularly significant coming
as it does soon after the
re-establishment of relations between
the Holy See and the United States for
over a century we maintained warm and
fruitful but informal relations now we
have exchanged ambassadors and we hope
to build on this new relationship to our
mutual benefit and to the benefit of
peace-loving people everywhere in a
violent world your holiness you have
been a minister of peace and love your
words your prayers your example have
made you for those who suffer oppression
or the violence of war a source of
Solace inspiration and hope
for this historic ministry the American
people are grateful to you and we wish
you every encouragement in your journeys
for peace and understanding in the world
I also want to say how grateful I am for
this opportunity to meet personally with
you to discuss matters of vital concern
to the Holy See and to the United States
we deeply value your counsel and support
and express our solidarity with you on
behalf of the American people I welcome
you and I extend to you our warmest
greetings place to be Jesus Christ mr.
president dear people of Alaska esteemed
citizens of America it gives me great
pleasure to visit Alaska once again
and from this northern state to send a
greeting of special warmth and affection
to all the citizens of the United States
of America as you know today I have
begun a pastoral journey that will take
me to Korea up where New Guinea the
Solomon Islands and Thailand and I am
delighted that this pilgrimage enables
me to stop here in Fairbanks and to be
among you I am deeply honored by the
presence of President Reagan who himself
is just returning from an important trip
to China mr. president I thank you for
your kind welcome on my arrival and I
wish to reaffirm through you my
friendship and the steam for all the
citizens of your great nation
[Applause]
my thanks go as well to bishop Whelan
for his much appreciated invitation to
the Diocese of Fairbanks I also extend
my good wishes to Bishop Canyon ski
[Applause]
and I pray that the Lord will grant him
many joyful years of service to the
church I would also offer a word of
greeting to the colonel and bishops of
the United States Episcopal conference
who have shown their eternal union with
me by coming here on this happy occasion
when I arrived on my first visit to your
beautiful state dear people of Alaska
and it is beautiful you say I remember
being welcomed by a lovely little child
Maury Mary who reached out and handed me
a bucket of forget-me-nots your state
flower shortly afterwards
that little girl was called home to her
Heavenly Father but her loving gesture
is not forgotten and her memory is held
in Blessington
I found in what she did at that time a
living truth about the people of the
vast Alaskan territory that in your toes
and in your prayers you remember the
poll today I'm here in person to give
you the assurance that I have not
forgotten you even when I am miles away
I hold the people of Alaska and those of
the whole of the United States close to
me in my heart
[Applause]
I do not forget you for we are linked
together by bounce of friendship of
faith and of love in some ways Alaska
can be considered today as a crossroads
of the world President Reagan is
returning from visiting the beloved
people of China even as I am making my
way to a neighboring area in the Far
East the city of Fairbanks reminds us
also of another direction for it is
called the heart of the golden north
[Music]
[Applause]
here in this bus stage 65 languages are
spoken and peoples of many diverse
backgrounds find a common home with the
alloys Eskimos and Indians this
wonderful diversity provides the context
in which each person each family each
ethnic group is challenged to live in
harmony and conquer one with the other
to achieve this aim requires a constant
openness to each other on the part of
each individual and group an openness of
HA a readiness to accept differences and
an ability to listen to each other's
viewpoint without prejudice openness to
others by its very nature exclude
selfishness in any form it is expressed
in a dialogue that is honest and frank
one that is based on mutual respect
openness to others begins in the heart
as I stated at the beginning of this
year in my message for the world they
peace if men and women hope to transform
society
they must begin by changing their own
hearts first only with a new heart can
learn discover rediscover
clear-sightedness and impartiality with
freedom of spirit the sense of justice
with respect to the rights of man the
sense of equity with global solidarity
between the rich and the poor mutual
trust and fraternal love here in
firmance you have the opportunity to
rediscover such values and express them
in your harmonious relationship with
your neighbor which reflects the
stupendous harmony of nature which
pervades this region may God grant you
the strength to express this harmony in
your own lives in your relationships
with others may he give you the courage
to share generously and selflessly
the blessings that you yourselves have
received in abundance god bless america
[Applause]
[Music]
Oh